There we go. Welcome, one and all, from Hollywood, California, Meltdown, Comics, Nerd, Melty,
Theater, Harmontown is now in session. Don't be alarmed that I'm not wearing a tie tonight,
just think we're going to get loose. Speaking of loose, let's bring out Spencer Crittenden. Solo
cups down. Speaking of tights, let's bring out Mr. Dan Harmon, the mayor of Harmontown.
Thank you for coming to my show. Thank you, I know you could have done something else
for me. Thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you, I really thank you, I'm full
of gratitude for you. Also, I should mention, special vocal guest, Jello Biafra, tonight,
was fantastic. Not familiar with his style. You sounded just like him. Yeah, I think our
guest tonight is, he's a writer, and he wrote a movie, I'm not introducing him yet, it sounds
like an introduction, but he wrote a movie, I was just watching an iTunes, it's the Stanford
prison experiment. To feel good film. I think just talking to him about writing and talking
about that movie and all of the thoughts about that is like enough, like I don't need to
babble too much, I don't have anything that wouldn't fit within the context of a conversation
with him. I say you and I and Spencer, we catch up briefly, we talk about where we're
at. Do we do business? We have some business to talk about, we have some important business.
I haven't picked up my gun yet. Ten day waiting period has turned into two months of normalization
on my part, apparently I'm normalizing. So someone's going to break into your house and
you're going to be like, oh Jesus Christ, I got a run to Burbank to get to that gun store.
It would be the story of my life, I had Batman security cameras installed all over my house,
and then I was part of some weird, lost village. When he says Batman security cameras, they
have little bats on it, like the under-oos of security cameras. And then I was, my
mailbox was part of some lost feel as wide, wet bandits, Joe Pesci, Daniel Stern, mailbox
raiding, where some two guys wanted to look at my piles of furniture catalogs really bad.
Also, I could have had them on camera, I could have, but whatever. Yes, of course, someone's
going to break in before I get my gun, so I don't get to deliciously shoot them. I can't,
I don't. But in a pre-Trump universe, if somebody was just like breaking into your
house because they were poor and needed the money, you'd probably say, hey, take what
you want, but now you're going to feel like you're under siege. I think it's more like
in a post-Trump universe, if someone's breaking in, I'm going to go, are you just poor? Are
you just out of food and money? And I'll wait for, yes. You've just told everyone to listen
to the show how to break into your house without being shot.
Well, the timbre of your voice is going to matter. You better be able to fake a very
authentic Latino sounding. You're not allowed to be offended by that because I'm saying
I won't shoot you if you're Latino. That's the opposite of racism. It's reverse racism.
That's fantastic. If you sound white, I will fucking pop a cap in you. And white people
don't act like you don't, sound different when you're coming through a window. White
people come in your window like this. Can I have a cup of sugar? Anyways.
Black people come through your window. It's in the way that you use it. They love Eric
Clapton, black people. Enty? Okay. Enty nodded. All right. Where was I? Where was I? You
were saying that all Latinos are poor and white people are rich.
I was saying that our brothers of a different color are under threat and in a post-Trump
apocalypse universe, my gun has been purchased for the sanctity of guarding my Danadoo. Not
so much from the Huypilloy as from the assertors of a newfound fascist state.
You haven't had a desire to go scoop up this gun and take it out to the range?
Because I've been like, well, he's not doing very good at taking over everything. He's
having a bad time. He seems to be doing as badly as I would do. He's very grumpy and
he's self-destructing. I don't think the gun will be needed to protect my home because
I think that the ice caps will melt. I think I should go shopping for a canoe paddle before.
What would you have to see on Twitter or here in your news alerts that made you get right
into a car and get to the gun shop? I would have to see CNN's Brian Stelter would have
to say, another great day. Trump Hile. The leader is good. The leader is all.
Yeah. I'm keeping my eye on the journalists, the activists, the prominent folks. I'm keeping
my eye on certain buoys. If I see them go like this, I'm like, okay, the Jaws shark
is here. I don't know. I got to go pick up the gun. What are we talking about? Don't
worry, kids. I'm going to get my gun. You've just told a couple million people that you're
currently unarmed at home right now. And if you ask for sugar, you can go right through
the window. You just fuck that up. You just, I know if you ask for sugar, you're white
and I will fucking kill you. Oh, well, okay. You told, you told Latinos that they could
ask for sugar and go through the window if they could put on a nice fucking it up. No,
if you're white and you don't want to get shot, go, I, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, when
you're coming in the window. If anything, I'm trying to, yes, and his fucked up racist
point of view. I'm here. I really have gone too far tonight. I'm not going to be, it's
fucked up to like what you do. You antagonize and you, on our cut, you sabotage. It's fun
to fuck with you. I try to get up here and I try to speak my mind and try to share my
thoughts with people and you're like, what about this? What about that? And I'm like,
what are you talking about? What are you talking about? And then I try to explain myself and
you're like, aha, like, am I your enemy? These kids need wisdom. They need to know what
color they're allowed to be if they're coming in my window. The answer is less than white.
I mean, I'll let the audience handle that one. I think it's, I think it's more embarrassing
the amount of time someone said less than white and then I went less than white and
then the whole audience went, whoa. My white audience was like, bingo. We are, we are
institutionally racist. Yeah, less than white. What are you going to do? It's how we see
the world. Fragility, we were talking about tonight and the ride over here. The thing
that made me buy a gun, the thing that I have in common with the people that we would probably,
I'm assuming most of us liberal, would associate with our so-called enemy on the other side
of the political spectrum. The thing we have in common, the thing that I have in common,
speak for myself is like fragility, the fact that I experienced things not going my way
and then I went and bought fucking hardware that puts holes in people because it was like
no matter, no matter the Al Gore's and dangling chads and the whatever is in the primaries
and all this shit, I had the luxury of going like systems. And then, and like something
real happened that made me actually think this is going to change my schedule. This
is going to change how I have to behave next Tuesday. I'm going to be held accountable
to something and I went and bought a gun. It's called fragility and it doesn't matter
how right you are, how wrong you are, how smart you are, how logical you are. It's
like it's a thing that's associated with privilege. You've been privileged. You're
more fragile. You're going to be more reacting to things that are on a smaller scale than
somebody who's maybe put up with shit and had to be desensitized to it and realized
that, oh, there's a pick your battles thing or whatever you would call it. And it's like,
that's what we're learning firsthand. All of that talk, all that white privilege, all
that stuff that I would get offended by and be like, well, wait a minute, hold on a second.
It's not logical. See, there's nothing logical about it. It's like a gut reaction. You find
out what you're made of and it turns out to be glass, beautiful, pristine fucking sugar
glass as soon as something goes wrong that fucks up with your picture of the universe.
I bought a gun. I turned into a fucking Sandy Hook truther. In terms of my behavior, I was
just like, I want my gun.
Yeah, we could have seen some bodies if that really happened, right?
We've waited this long to share with you something special about Spencer.
No, and you already like me. It's too late.
I have to say, you already signed off on Spencer. He's a Sandy Hook truther.
If there's any person in podcast history that could maybe get you to sign off on that,
would it have to be Spencer?
Spencer talked long enough, like five minutes, I'd be like, all right, maybe I guess, why
was that corner acting so weird?
I went down a Sandy Hook hole today because I was listening to true crime podcasts and
then there was mention of Sandy Hook and then there was reference. When Sandy Hook happened,
I was probably doing community and I was probably also just like the gross, you don't want to
know about it, like most of us, but now it's interesting. It's like the magma's cooled and
the stakes seem so much higher in this different spot.
And it's like all these things are like, so from a true crime perspective, Sandy Hook
gets mentioned and I started like, they started mentioning like the thing.
I just started the today of all days.
I like went there. I was like, what was all that business?
Why were people thinking it was fake and what was going on?
And as I was going through it, I thought it was really interesting to note that like,
it wasn't just like, it was like, you had to be a whack job to think that it was fake,
but you also, excuse me, I burped, you have to, you also had to be a whack job who was
absolutely convinced that Obama was like Hitler, like he was going to get you.
He was going to, you know, and I would personally speculate that that absolutely,
given the total lack of empirical evidence that Obama was going to get us, like I have to,
I'm sorry to play this card, but I have to assume you're a little itty bitty racist
if you really thought from the moment that he got inaugurated that you're like,
shit's going down.
Because if you weren't, if you didn't have that, I think it comes down to that.
I do also think it came down to something other than emails,
why you were choosing with all your logical fucking things,
all your speeches that you made about why you're voting this way and that way,
you know, your very salient points about the status quo and how to shake things up
and all these things like, you don't like the vagina, you don't like the black people.
Because I think there's other ways to rebel.
But what am I going to do? What am I going to say to some kid who's like,
I'm going to stir things up.
But I just thought it was very interesting looking at three-year-old like cooled obsidian,
like people freaking out and recognizing the distorted shape of myself,
like seeing people that were so hysterical,
that were so convinced that they were living in the end times politically,
that in the very real moment of two dozen children being massacred,
that they would actually, that politics could interfere that greatly
with your fundamental human need for empathy,
that you would actually just skirt around it and start actually,
you would rather just live in an alternate universe.
And I don't think every single person that flocked towards those YouTube videos
that are all the first thing that comes up when you Google Sandy Hook,
I think those clicks aren't all the result of mental illness.
I think you have to be pretty mentally ill to like put a lot of arrows and things
and freeze frames and do all the things that the people that were presenting the videos,
but then there's people that they wanted it to be true.
And the rhetoric about the, oh, the occupier-in-chief,
and oh, he just wants this and he wants that.
They were living in this Wizard of Oz where there was a wicked witch
and we just got to get to the Emerald City of the truth
and everyone's going to get what they want as though they're trying to take away
and just going to throw the bucket of water.
They're just not really acknowledging the fact that what they're doing in the present moment
is haranguing the parents of murdered children.
And it's like we're feeling that way right now.
I am feeling that way.
I'm feeling the way they're feeling.
That doesn't mean that I'm as crazy as them.
It doesn't mean that I'm as wrong as them.
But it does mean that we have the ability to fucking like just abandon all everything that makes us good
when we get excited, when we get righteous and stuff.
And I was like looking at my reflection of that twisted wreckage
and I have no point to any of you.
So I was already feeling depressed, but now you're telling me,
plus on top of that, get over myself?
What are you telling me?
I'm not saying that.
I'm just saying like, I don't know, man.
I watched this documentary with this guy, Darryl Davis, who's like the guy.
Did you guys see that?
It was like, I can't remember what the title of it is.
He's like a guy who like, he befriended, he's a black guy that befriended Ku Klux Klan people.
Like for years and years, he's been like, I don't have enough time to talk about it.
You should watch that documentary.
Find it on Netflix or whatever.
And sit through it because he kind of, it's like, there's a point like 45 minutes in where you're kind of like,
I get it, BB King played good guitar, but like, it feels a little bit at a certain point.
Like, like for the first half, like your things are being repeated over and over again.
Then he goes to Baltimore.
And like he, the shit is just happening like, like crazy shit.
So there's millennial activists, millennial black activists sitting down at a table with him after you've already watched the,
the polite whimsy of him sitting down with leaders of the KKK and skinheads and all these things.
And you take from it what you will. And then he goes to Baltimore and it's, it gets fucking balloon animal.
Like, it's crazy.
Like, like you just, you walk away from the whole thing, I will warn you a little sad.
I mean, because it's like, fuck, we're all fucked.
But, but, but it also, it's like, it's not like, like, like, oh, just watch this documentary about how we're all fucked.
It's more like, watch, like, watch this documentary about Daryl Davis that like, it puts so much shit under the microscope.
I've talked enough.
And talked enough. It's my show. Fuck you people.
You haven't begun to talk. This is, this is your night.
I'm obviously a little buzzed or something.
If your next, if your next breath was going to be bringing our guest.
Yes, I was going to bring out our guest.
Can I, can I interject one little thing?
Yeah. For those of you who have been wondering that, well, whether or not the three of us, or this show would never get back to a D&D game, or a Pathfinder role-playing game.
We decided not to.
We decided Dan's race monologues were enough for you people.
But today we've actually generated characters. We're not playing tonight, but we have, we have, we have, we have a whole thing coming up.
It's going to start, it's going to be a doozy.
There was a little clerical error. The characters we rolled were less than white.
We're going to re-roll some stats and, and make them as much as white.
Oh boy.
I want this episode to be called less than white just to see what happens for you.
For your, for your, for your career.
I mean, if, if, if my ironic, based in reality, because I'm a generation X foot, foot and mouth asshole racism, is that if we have a crucifixion of me, just, just do it next to the White House.
That's all I ask. Just like, just, and just put racist above my head.
Like, like, and, and, and just like, I just demand, does everybody just fucking like spit on my corpse?
And, and, and I just want anybody that works in Washington to be like, what did he do wrong? Well, he was racist.
And I just want that person's lunch to change.
Because they're going to be like, he was right. Fuck.
I heard his podcast. He got a little tipsy sometimes, but Jesus Christ, I'm an actual, I get out there and really do the hard racist work.
I did, I did like a whistle stop thing. Yeah.
I bought a weird hat. I sewed some things on my shoulder.
I dressed as R2D2 to leave a town hall meeting under the auspices that it was early trick or treat.
All right. So our next guest is all around screenwriter, TV, movies.
Like I said, his, the most recent thing I was watching, maybe he's done more than this recently. Let's talk to him and find out.
Please welcome our new friend, Tim Talbot.
Uh, I got your name right and everything, right? Like I didn't, I'm a bad interviewer. Just, I don't know if I told you that backstage.
I'm a bad interviewer, but, but, but bad interviewee. Okay. Good. This will be great.
This will be awesome. This will go great.
Um, so I'm going to put a pin in like how you got started because I think your first job was South Park, right?
Like, first, yeah, like real kind of professional job.
Well, I mean, before that, I actually got hired to write a TV movie for MTV.
Oh, okay. Hey, Tim, I'm sorry, just, just for audio here, get, get right in that microphone.
Get right in there. Okay. Yeah.
Um, yeah, but like the, oh yeah, you're a Spencer, does it? Yeah.
Um, yeah. So like the first real sort of kind of professional, um, for a network job was for South Park.
Yeah. Like you, uh, what did you send in the script?
Now I said I put a pin in it, but now I'm talking about it.
So you, okay. No, actually what happened was when I first moved out here right out of college, I, um, became friends with a lot of people that were people's assistants.
And one of them was a woman named Amy Cohen, who was George Clooney's assistant at the time.
And George was like one of the guys that sent out that first spirit of Christmas take to everyone.
And so through her, I met Matt and Trey's assistant.
Um, and then just for like a couple of years, I was like in their group.
So I was going to all their parties and all that kind of stuff.
And, um, so they never read a word of it.
It was like, oh, that guy's funny. Bring him in.
You're clearly confident enough that you didn't insert any fake like, and then I won a talent contest.
No, it was just like, I hung out with those guys at a party and that's the way they ran their room.
I, I, I, everyone's story of like, if you're paying your rent with writing, you're one of the fortunate ones.
Then people ask about your origin story.
How did you go from being Tony Stark to having this whole thing with the Jarvis and everything?
Like, and the answer is never as satisfying as well.
I got blown up by my own Schrab.el and I had an awakening of the spirit that was brought to me by a magical person that was less than white in a cave.
Um, I like, we never have that story.
We don't, we are not able to impart to them.
How do you, you cope with that really well?
Cause you just told the story that was like, I ran a, I turned, I turned, I turned right on a green light and I slipped into an appeal.
Well, no, before that though, I actually, um, you know, I, I, I wanted to be an editor when I moved out here.
I went to film school and, and, uh, editing was the only job that I could stand.
Like everything else was just, you know, you can't ever write what exactly what you want to write.
Cause you went to film school.
Yeah, I did.
So how did you know, did you do, and when they teach you editing in film school, did they teach you that it's going to be like, there's a person behind you over your shoulder that isn't, that isn't possible.
No.
They're just teaching you the crap.
No, they literally, the, the thing that was really kind of cool about the school I went to was that, uh, day one, it was like a very much like a tech school.
So here's a camera, go start making shit.
Um, and then I found that in the process of making shit, it was so frustrating.
We couldn't get good actors.
We couldn't, you know, the, the cinematography was never what you wanted.
And then you finally get to the point where you have to edit your film and there's a pile of shit you got to make into China.
And, um, for me, that was like as creative as writing.
Right, right.
Um, so I, yeah, I'm like one of those.
I'm sorry, you became a, you, you got into editing after being asked to be a director and a filmmaker.
And you said, no, I just, I just prefer the editing part or.
Well, pretty much like when you're in film school, you do everything.
Okay.
And, and part of my whole thing was that I figured out that, um, if I'm going to be a director, um, I have to know the limitations of everyone else's job.
So you crew on everybody else's movies and, and you just kind of come to, to like what you like.
But with editing, for me, it was just everything about the process up until that point was such a disappointment.
That finally to be locked in a room and just be like, well, now make this into something that you were not ashamed to show to people.
Right.
Was cool.
And then when I moved to California, uh, I moved out here with like 20 bucks in my pocket and one friend from college.
And I might as well have stayed on the East coast because I couldn't get my foot in the door anywhere.
Um, and then I figured out that the only thing I could do without being hired to do it was to write a screenplay.
Right.
And, um, you know, I just started writing and got repped off the first screenplay and, and, and luckily I also met a trust fund kid from New Jersey who wanted to be a producer.
Donald Trump.
It was not Trump.
Um, but he basically paid for me to learn how to write.
So I wrote three scripts for this guy before I ever got hired for anything.
That sounds familiar.
I mean, I feel like I, yeah, we, we, we airbrush our backstories.
Like I, I, I could get really specific about my path from Milwaukee to Los Angeles.
It does involve like a little like low rent benefactors who are like, like, like, like there's like, it's, it's always very molecular and granular.
Anyways, but, uh, but it's never, it's never a satisfying thing to say to a kid who's saying, how do I get where you are?
Tell me.
And you can never give them a straight answer.
Well, there is a straight answer to that.
And that's just don't leave.
I mean, literally the people.
You know, if you, if you literally just keep doing it, don't leave where you are.
No, don't know.
I'm saying if you come to California and you want to be a writer, you come to California and you keep writing and sooner or later you're going to get in.
Right.
There's no, there's no easy path.
It's always a catch 22.
Yeah.
That's what, you know, always default to like, well, okay.
You just, you're going to have to like writing so much that you'd be willing to do it for 30 years and then get hit by a bus and die because I don't want your blood on my hands at the end of it.
And I got to a point where I would have been fine doing that.
And then all of a sudden I got lucky.
All right.
Anyways, but, but so, so we can talk about the early days of South Park later, but I kind of want to get to the Stanford prison experiment thing.
Because I just started watching that movie.
So, so I asked you in the green room, maybe we'll retread and we'll pretend I'm asking you for the first time.
How accurate is this movie go?
85%.
It literally is.
It's one of those things where, as I was telling you in the green room for years, they were trying to make this story and Hollywood in their wonderful way always like the story wasn't enough for them.
They wanted to make it into more and make it into the stakes have to be life and death.
It's got to be have like huge emotional stakes.
You know, an earlier draft HBO was going to do that Leonardo DiCaprio was attached to that was about a guard and a prisoner that were best friends and there was a girl on the outside and a weird love triangle.
And it's like, what the fuck is this?
You know, and when I first got approached to work on the project, I was completely, I didn't believe it.
I didn't take any psych classes in college or anything.
I knew nothing about it.
And I'm just like, there's nothing you can do to me that's going to make me believe after three days that, you know, a classroom with fake bars on the door is a prison I can't get out of.
And it was only when I dove into sort of the research with doctors and Bardo that I realized, holy shit, this is fascinating.
And this is human, this is like a real thing.
So Bardo is the guy that ran the whole thing.
Yeah, he's the guy that, he does not come off heroically in the movie.
Not at all.
But, but, but, but at the same time, it's like, you could say the same thing about DiCaprio as Howard Hughes and the aviator.
He does not come off heroically and yet, but he does have a lot of urine.
He's, he's a, he's the genius who thought of this experiment.
And my favorite line of the movie, this isn't really a spoiler.
I think this gets to the crux of why we all heard the phrase Stanford Prison Experiment in high school is, but it was like, everyone's arguing about what's going on.
There's talking about the relationship between two guys, one's a prisoner, one's a guard.
And then the Zimbardo character is sitting back in his hot curled hair and his Boogie Knight suit.
And he, and he goes like, guys, guys, you're missing the larger point.
The point is that the two guys you're talking about were separated by a coin toss.
And that really was, that's why we continue to refer to the Stanford Prison Experiment.
It's not because it was immaculately scientific.
It's, it was, if anything, totally dramatic and fantastical.
It was, they, they, they didn't, they didn't set out.
I always pictured, I was telling you in the green room every time I heard about the Stanford Prison Experiment,
which for anyone who's, you know, the headline of it that you hear about in high school is,
okay, they did this college experiment where they took a group of volunteers, they made some of them randomly guards,
and they made some of them randomly prisoners.
And what happened over time very quickly is that they fell into roles of abusiveness that, that transcended any rules that they were given.
The guards were abusive to the prisoners.
The prisoners were abusive to each other.
Abuse, abuse, abuse, abuse.
It all happened even though it was all a big game.
It just happened for real.
And even as the movie represents, it, it spread upward to Zimbardo who started acting like the prison warden,
started becoming paranoid about one of the escaped prisoners coming back to, but, you know, like he began,
he himself became part of the experiment because it wasn't science, it was art, and it was, but it was very valid art
that you could refer to very scientifically when you say, yeah, but circumstances fuck you up.
If you're deprived of your freedom in any way, you are, you begin to behave like someone that is not free,
and you start verifying all of these negative expectations of yourself.
If you are given privilege and power, you start overreacting to threats to it,
because you think that someone dropping a pencil means that you should go fuck yourself,
and that you, you start seeing the merits and coming down hard and drawing a line in the sand,
and it starts with guys going, why am I talking so much? You're on the show.
What did you, what was your process like when you're getting this job?
Like, I want to hear about the, like, like how much, how much reading did you have to do to write this screenplay?
Well, I had to do a lot. I got all of, you know, we had, you know, Zimbardo's life rights,
and he was open to us, so I got to talk to him whenever I needed to.
I interviewed him and his wife together and separately.
He sent me all the original paperwork from the experiment that they, they documented everything.
I mean, everybody, that's one thing, you know, there's so much happened in those six days
that you can't put it all in a movie.
But one of the things they did is they had a standard set of questions that they asked all the prisoners every day.
And you could just see them, you know, through, when you read this stuff, it's fascinating that they are being dehumanized.
And even there's a bit in the movie where they're asked to write a letter home after two days,
and half of the kids signed their number and not their name.
Because it had been drilled into them so much over the previous couple of days.
Because they thought they would get rebuked because their mail would be gone through,
and they would, like, they'd get in trouble for not doing that?
Well, they knew their mail would be gone through.
No, they knew it would be gone through because they were not allowed to seal their envelopes.
They had to hand them back, so they were going to be read.
So they became a number just in case?
Yeah, I think it was just more that the indoctrination of the first couple of days really started to work on them.
When you're referred to as a number and not a name, over and over again, and you're sleep deprived,
and you have to, like, rattle off your number a thousand times a day, it was just easier.
It became sort of their identity.
So you worked and met Zimbardo?
Oh, yeah.
And how does he look back on this, and what's it like having this rehashed through?
Well, the good thing about him is that he absolutely 100% owns it.
You know, he's like, I realized I fucked up.
I fucked up by making myself part of the experiment.
And it really took, you know, I mean, if you've seen the movie,
it took someone from the outside coming in to really say,
hey, you guys are totally fucking up here.
You have to stop this, because nobody else saw it.
They just saw, wow, we're getting a really cool, this is a real study.
It's we're getting real information and didn't realize that they were hurting people in the process.
But now, wait a minute.
I mean, and I confess, I forgot about a Harmontown meeting that was happening at my house,
so I haven't actually watched the end of the movie.
So spoilers.
I haven't gotten to the third act yet.
The story we hear in high school is the experiment got out of control,
but much like Frankenstein's experiment, mythically,
the thing that made it a disaster is the valuable thing about it.
I mean, does Zimbardo, does he look at it as like, yeah,
that thing I did that was like groundbreaking,
or is the whole thing just a cautionary tale and a carrion tragedy?
I think it's closer to that.
I think that one of the things is that when you first start reading about it and not talking to him directly,
it's got its own life out there.
He's got his own like media life and the media and reporters and stuff
have built him up to be this guy that designed this experiment to generate that response.
Right.
Where the actual fact was he didn't expect anything from this.
This was no different than any other experiment that they'd been doing at Stanford,
other than the fact that it was a 24-hour day experiment and it was going to go for two weeks.
What kind of data do you think he thought he was going to get?
There's a clear point in your narrative where it's like, oh, shit, this is,
and then the eyes get big, but what kind of data in his mind, like...
I think, well, part of the Navy were one of the people that funded the experiment
and they wanted to know what kind of mental effects incarceration would have on people like in submarines.
How were they going to measure it, though?
Like, were they going to have them recite the alphabet at the end of each day?
No, I think a lot of it was just that daily questions that they had to answer.
How much did he go in with...
Did he have like a sociological point to prove going in?
He thought he might be able... Like, you ever see the 7-up documentaries?
The 7 and up?
You watched the beginning of that.
You kind of feel like he was going in trying to prove class things.
Then it turns into something very different.
Do you think he came in with a sociological point of view on this,
or he really just said, let's just get raw, unadulterated data?
I think he just basically wanted to see what...
Basically, what he learned from it, I think, is what he was looking for, which is how the environment can change people.
He constantly says, the whole idea about prisons is there are no bad apples, there are just bad barrels.
So if you have an inherently... Because all these kids were inherently good,
they were all screened to be all American normal kids.
They all went through the movie. There's one Asian guy.
There's one Asian guy.
Is that based on reality?
Yeah, that's based on reality.
Was that just a sort of... When was this?
This was in 1971.
So was that just sort of like, oh, black kids aren't college kids?
What was at play there?
I honestly can't tell you except that this took place in August of 1971.
I would say in Stanford at 71, that might have been a good representation of the student body.
But these weren't Stanford students.
Not all of them. Some of them were.
But it was just an ad place in the paper.
But it was during the summer, so a lot of kids that were still there for the summer came in and interviewed.
And they interviewed quite a few people to find the 24 or whatever.
But did you start... I kind of railroaded your answer.
The faces that we see on screen and the ethnic spectrum that they represent, is that...
That's accurate.
Okay.
So there was like one like...
There was one Asian student and then one of the...
Well, obviously Carlo Prescott, the guy that they brought into advise,
was a black man who was in prison for 17 years before this.
And then one of Zimbardo's grad assistants, a grad student, was also a black guy.
Yeah.
And he initiated...
Yeah, I mean, it's interesting.
Yeah, I mean, the more would be spoilers, I think, because the narrative...
But you already know the real life story is that the experiment got out of control.
But what I've always felt about hearing that,
because I've probably referred to the Stanford Prison Experiment a thousand times in 20 years
when talking about politics or anything, talking about particularly fascism,
is like, well, it's a successful experiment, not from a scientific perspective,
but from the fact that someone once did this thing.
And it turned out...
It changed the way that experimentation could be done in colleges now.
I mean, literally, it's like they didn't have ethics committees back then.
So ethically, this thing was one thing.
Well, the Department of Justice or some government agency reviewed this whole thing.
But when you say it that way, there's an unspoken supposition there
that the information that came out of this experience was completely not valuable at all to future generations.
No, it absolutely was.
It was just that they found that the methods in which they did this were harmful.
Yes. Is there a way to do an experiment like that without hurting the subjects?
It doesn't seem like...
Probably not.
Right.
But they didn't know that at the time.
Well, it's more of a...
But the thing is, in the movie, as it reveals, it gets a very organic process,
it's like he set up a situation, he thought that the glibness of it...
The thing that I always pictured was like this...
Like you said, Jeff, you said like a set of an Elvis number where it's like you pictured Stanford like shelling out for fake prison cells.
I pictured Yale House Rock where there was four tears of dudes dancing and...
This movie takes place...
If you can't find a partner, find a wooden chair.
This story takes place in a hallway of Stanford College on summer break where a couple of offices,
they carved the doors out and put bars in the doors.
But some people were in charge of when the doors were unlocked and when they weren't.
And they had burlap sacks that were like dresses, there was a deliberate attempt to feminize,
which in 1971 was the equivalent of Zimbardo actually laying it out saying...
Someone questions, he goes, feminize, and he's like, yes, to remove everything that they are.
He's saying, you know, there's an unspoken thing there.
It's like going waist deep into this thing and himself becoming infected by it, becoming the warden,
losing his mind to the same extent that Sigmund Freud injecting cocaine into his own arm
like did yield some shit.
I mean, this is important.
It's important to...
No, it's definitely important.
It just, again, now ethically they would not...
You would not get this past any college ethics board.
But it's like...
But it's a case where ethics, which are the thing that are being looked at.
Like the reason we're afraid...
If we become really good at conducting Stanford prison experiments, we're not getting accurate data.
Right.
Like we're not...
We don't want to become really, really good at making sure no one gets hurt during the Stanford prison experiment.
We want to...
Well, again, the accurate data is that if you conduct one, you become fucking Hitler overnight.
If you put yourself in the position of judging what you're measuring and if the people...
That everyone is intoxicated instantly by fascism, by hierarchical thinking and answering to a higher calling.
Everybody dresses it in different ways.
I'm here for my $15 a day.
He's looking at it like, I'm going to publish a paper on this.
He's not even sure what he's drinking by the time he's drunk on it.
He's seeing images of students punching other students and he's thinking, I made this happen.
And it's a live experiment.
And it's a successful experiment.
This is a live thing.
And so, again, the paranoia comes in when the family members come to visit.
He's terrified one of them is going to pull their kid out.
To the point where there's a really great scene that Billy Crudup who plays Zimbardo in the movie
handles some crud heads here.
We got crud heads.
We got big Zimbardo fans here.
They come to every podcast.
They want more Billy Crudup information.
Unlike tonight, we always have to disappoint them.
Shout out, Monica.
One thing I will say about Billy Crudup is he has a sort of like a monologue at the end of the movie where he pulls the plug.
We shot everything else before that.
So all these kids have been working together for two and a half weeks.
And he walked in on his first day and delivered like his last scene in the movie.
And it was like, holy shit.
This guy's good.
Were you on the set the whole time?
I wasn't.
I was a writer on Chicago Fire for a couple of years and I was shooting an episode at the same time.
So I was going back and forth between here and Chicago.
It's true that the experiment, the Chicago Fire writing room, didn't you guys set a lot of fires in Chicago?
No comment.
Absolute power corrupts.
Absolutely.
I want to look at, because you've got a bigger career than that.
We can talk about what it was like.
So you were at South Park from the beginning.
No.
I was there for season five and six.
All right, well, those are the worst seasons ever.
No, but it sounded like just because of the way you're describing being friends with George Clooney and all that stuff that you were there on the very ground floor.
But what was it like in those days?
Were you full time?
Yeah, well, I was a staff writer.
So the way that they work, by the time I'd gotten there, their process had gotten to a point where basically Trey Parker was writing and directing every episode.
And so they'd bring you like on a writer's retreat at the beginning of the season, you know, like we went up to Whistler and we'd ski half the day and then sit in a room.
And, you know, your only real job was to be attentive to the media and like what's going on in society.
So we'd sit in a room and we'd spitball stuff and then all of a sudden we'd have like five or six ideas for shows.
And we come back to LA and in order to get the show done on time, they had to generate eight pages of script a day.
And so Trey would go off and start these scripts and then whenever he got stuck, he'd call the writers in.
And we'd just sit around, you know, you come in, they buy you lunch, you sit around a big table with some of the funniest people you've ever met,
and you laugh until your face wants to fall off.
And hopefully you throw something out that ends up in the show and then, you know, two days later it's on television.
Right.
You know, which is amazing for animation.
Who else that we would know?
I've had friends and Dan's had friends that have worked on that show throughout the years.
Who was there back in those days that we might know?
Well, Trey Parker, Matt Stone.
Never heard of them.
Kyle McCullough, David Goodman, Glasgow Phillips.
Hack, hack, hack.
No, I'm kidding.
Who else?
Nancy Pimentall was there for a little bit.
She was there for, I worked with her for weeks.
She's big with crewed up fans.
Yeah.
Well, that corroborates greatly with every, we do have a couple of friends here and there as the show's been on for so long.
Almost everybody in LA knows, somebody that worked on South Park at some point.
That is the legend, is that there's almost a feeling of guilt at how much Trey Parker is like,
like he calls you in a room and then you guys talk and then you laugh and laugh,
and then he, at some point he leaves the room and then he writes more script.
Yeah, and those guys are there, you know, 20 hours a day.
You know, we come in for two hours and laugh it up and leave, which, you know, it's a dream job.
And I have to say though, when you first walk into that, I'm not necessarily first and foremost a comedy writer.
You know, so I, they just thought I was funny.
So that first day I'm sitting in there and half the staff are actors as well.
So they were, they get up and they act out their character stuff and I'm like, I'm not that at all.
And I sat there for probably the first hour of the first meeting, just going like, what am I doing here?
What happened? And I realized that if you don't open your mouth and say something, they're just going to fire your ass.
So I threw something out and it got a huge laugh.
And then I was like, oh, that's what this job is.
Now, to what extent, because this is the first time I've heard, because I've heard about those retreats.
And I always imagine them with this sense of dread because they sounded like auditions.
Like you went on the retreat and then some people that, that was vodka, don't worry about it.
Some people that go on these retreats, everybody gets to have the time of their life.
Some people going on the retreat, get the job. Some people don't.
That was earlier on.
You're making it sound more like you.
Earlier it was more of an audition thing. By the time I was there, that was just, I came in the middle of the season.
So I worked on three episodes, then went on a retreat, worked on six episodes, then went on another retreat, and worked on another six episodes.
They actually generate a voluminous amount of their season on the retreat.
Yeah, I mean, that's the basic structure.
And it happens usually about three weeks before the season starts.
So it's relatively topical.
Did they structure it where you got to, as a staff writer, get your name on a script?
Nope.
That was later down the road?
But my name's on every episode I worked on as a staff writer at the end.
So that's more than almost every other television show staff writers don't even get.
You don't have to say yes or no. You don't have to say which script. Is there a script that you feel very responsible for that you get a lot of stuff done on?
Yeah, there was one, I'm trying to think of the name of the script.
It was basically about, it grew out of a conversation between myself and Matt Stone about the Star Wars special editions.
That we just fucking hated them so much.
And E.T. was coming out.
That's a walkie-talkie one.
So right around that same time, we came up with the idea that the boys had to break into Lucasfilm or Skywalker Sound and get the print of Raiders of the Lost Ark back.
Yeah, I think, oh, it's called Free Hat.
That was one.
And then the only other one that I can claim any responsibility for is the one where Kenny dies for real.
I just thought, what would happen if we just killed him?
There was a TV movie version of Brian's song that was on somewhere around there.
So we just took that and made it into this whole like, oh my god, our friend is going to die.
But you probably were gone by the time what Chef had to be done.
Yeah, I was gone.
If there should be an absolutely separate Emmy category, the complicated ratio between passion, relevance, manpower, because there's always been very few people working in that show and the speed with which they're working.
And how incredibly funny and just, what words do you say?
Balls out, like fucking brave, bold, like opinionated, like fuck this thing.
How many of us in this room have like been swirling around with some thought in our head about some piece of pop culture or politics or something and then we get this like decidedly kind of admittedly maybe libertarian view from South Park.
But it kind of like pushes us over into how to feel about something because it's done with this like grace and humor and what.
The great thing about those guys and what was really intoxicating working with them is they have no tolerance for bullshit or hypocrisy.
So if they see something, they have a point of view on it and they just come out and say it.
They just don't give a shit.
They're just so ripe for corruption so long ago.
Yeah, and they just, you know, I mean, they just haven't.
I mean, you know, they're in a really wonderful place where they can do whatever they want and they've been able to because they were successful with the show right from the beginning.
I feel spoiled because I only ever, like South Park's going to at some point not exist.
It'll probably outlive me but the way I eat.
There will be a day maybe when it's like gone and done and then there's going to be eulogies for it.
Like there was for fucking whatever the hell that gossip rag was.
All of a sudden we found out that it was important that, whatever, what the fuck was, Gawker was so important.
Well, I imagine South Park's going to turn out to be pretty fucking important the day.
It goes off air.
Like I feel spoiled in the meantime because I've only ever just like randomly run back into it like an old lover and just always astounded at how still fucking funny it is.
Like you just want to just like, oh, how is it still this funny?
It's 48 years old.
The cool thing is that they kind of mixed things up the last two seasons where they made them serialized.
So as they had a storyline, I think that's the last episode I saw that ended the crescendoed in the divorce, the moving away.
And I haven't watched it since because I've just spoiled South Park wise.
I'm like, wow, someday I'll just be, yeah.
But yeah, I mean, I've always been astounded by it.
Like Cartman is probably one of the most important television characters in television.
He's right up there with Archie Bunker for me.
I always reference him in the same breath as Archie Bunker when you talk about like the importance of this in character.
I don't mean the seasons of the episodes that don't like do it for me as much as other seasons or episodes is when they got Cartman wrong.
When they got Cartman right, it made it pretty special because they made it really, really bad.
Like really, really, really horrible.
Right before I got there, they did the one where Cartman basically killed someone's parents and fed them to him.
But that's a lot of people's favorite episodes.
Scott, something must die. What's it called?
Yeah, yeah.
What's his last name?
Scott Teneman must die.
That just breaking his tears at the end.
Like, oh, the sweet misery of your tears.
That's a fucking doozy.
If I remember that, that was all.
Chevy chased his character on Community.
Well, that was all it was ever doing.
It was just ripping off Cartman.
It was just the idea was like, well, there is a character who's just like, he's the voice of that petty child within you.
But that includes talking to God.
Like God is somebody that's going to ground you, make you take a time out.
We have a word for someone that responds to God saying that with fuck you.
That word is sometimes hero.
Mythic on a mythic level to say fuck you to mortality, to say fuck you to the way you got out of bed in the morning.
It's often the face of privilege and oppression and bigotry.
But then every once in a while, it's like, yeah, don't go gentle into that good night.
We root for Cartman because he's safely in the package of a reprehensible troll.
But we get to like sap some of that toxin just enough to dab on our tongue and like get high a little bit because it's like in a safe container.
And we've been learning that.
I don't know if you heard me babbling.
I was talking to the Daryl Davis documentary.
Have you seen that?
I saw like a news piece on him because I haven't seen the whole doc.
He's basically dedicated his life to this sort of like tract of belief that it's like, you don't want these people in the shadows.
You want them as much as it pains us.
It's like what good comes from them hiding.
They're as bad as they are and they're twice as bad because whatever butt hurt, fucking whatever birthday party they didn't get invited to, whatever they're fucking cranking about.
Sorry, but it's better to talk to them at Denny's and it's like he has this like collection of KKK robes that are the slow erosion
through friendship one-on-one of him sitting down with a dude who says he wants all this and that to be this and that way and being friendly to them.
And because a friendship with him is completely incalculable to that philosophy, or maybe they just outgrow it, that would be an argument against what he's doing.
But they eventually leave, they give him his robes.
They don't outgrow it and their chapters fall away.
This past year was developing a TV show that was about a guy that has to infiltrate a white supremacist organization.
And doing a lot of research into that, you come to realize that a lot of those people, they don't hate you because you are a different color.
They hate you because they don't know you.
And that when people indoctrinate people into these hate groups, they basically are saying, look, it's not your fault that you're poor and broken stupid, it's their fault.
So by shifting the blame, I mean half the people that are white supremacists just don't know any better.
They've either been raised in that culture.
No, I mean they literally don't. No, I'm telling you, it's literally- Look at this energy that's being generated right now in this room, which I'd prefer to pass on.
But it's like that hot front meeting that cold front, that hurricane, watch this documentary.
Because what you're feeling, one person is like very fidgety, they're like, yes, they're not saying, yeah, racists are misunderstood, you need to talk to them more.
But then someone else is like, what the fuck are we doing? No, we don't need to understand them.
There's a guy from the Southern Poverty Law Center in the documentary who's like, he's a white dude talking to a black dude who's his age and neither of them are heroes or villains.
But he's like, look, one thing he says is you're dealing on a retail level, I'm dealing on a wholesale level, I don't fucking care whether you made a friend with a racist yesterday.
Good for him, great. I want this shit illegal.
And it's like, there are no villains in this story, but one thing that endures, because he goes to Baltimore and he's talking to millennial black activists who are fucking like, they're on point.
You do not want to be talking down to them, they've been arrested a thousand times, maced a thousand times, they're in the trenches.
If we're going to grant veterans of Iraq and things, if we're going to say that when those people speak that we owe it to them to not shit on them and dismiss them, then we definitely have to extend that to activists who work in urban environments where you're on the front lines.
And these guys are smart and they're absolutely bewildered by this old baby boomer guy who's going like, I got this clan robe from the KKK and I got this Confederate flag and they're like, what the fuck are you talking about?
How long have you been doing this? And he's like, I don't know how many, 50 years, I have no idea how long it's been. And you got 25 racist dudes from Memphis to give you their robes when they got tired of being racist?
And they're like, this seems like a fetish. And they try on both sides. I think what you see is that Gerald Davis is like, the word fetish is not, it's like, wow, yeah.
Because he's in his comfort zone when he's laying back and he's expressing this unbelievable amount of acquiescence. But then they're calling him out and going like, that's your comfort zone. That's you accruing this collection of shit in your garage.
We're out here, nameless, faceless, taking, you know, it's a stun baton stuff. Then an older dude, baby boomer, I don't know if that's accurate, older black dude who's like, those guys, protector, mentor, those guys both get up, they can't take the interview anymore.
They don't yell, they don't shout, but it breaks down. They get up and they leave. That guy comes over, he's got a gray beard, he's the same generation as this guy. He's urban, and he's been proud of those guys.
And he's like, I can't shake your hand. But then that's the guy that almost spirals, he's shouting, he's like, get the fuck out of here and don't come back by the end of their conversation and doesn't want to hear Darrell's side of it because it's too offensive.
The thing that I walked away from it from was this weird thing, why am I dumping this on you? The thing that was the most pronounced about it was the fact that those young guys who were so smart and so cool and they had given so much, one of the things he got them to say,
and I don't mean got them to say the way you get Donald Trump to say that microwaves are cameras, I mean he took the conversation down a river that afforded us this glimpse around this curve of trees, one of the things he got them to say was that they didn't believe that white supremacists could change.
Now that's a very, very interesting thing to admit to yourself because it puts you firmly on the side of a line in a world that we're either going to fix, save, abandon, tear up, fighting each other.
It puts you on the side as just as you are and as righteous as you are, and as right as you may be, but it puts you firmly on the side of a war between people who think that we can do better and people who are like, fuck it, we're fighting.
They said that, they said, no, I don't think they can change. I don't know if they really, he didn't give them a slide rule in 20 minutes to answer his question. I think maybe they would have said over 20 minutes like, well, people don't change through the actions that you're taking.
People change, blah, blah, blah, and you fish rocks from the head or whatever, but in that moment they're like, no, you can't change them, they don't change them. And he says, of course he's aggravating them by saying, well, you sound like Donald Trump.
Donald Trump hadn't been elected yet at the time of this interview, and then one of the guys goes like, I hope Donald Trump gets elected because it's like the wolf versus the fox. I know what Donald Trump stands for. I'm not voting anyway and all this shit, and you're like, fuck this, where have we all been?
And at the end of the documentary, Donald Trump's elected. You have no idea where the fucking head is spinning. You're like, who wins, who loses, what is happening? You just feel like you're being flushed down a toilet, like spiritually, because you're just like, oh, we're all good people?
When we look in the mirror, but we're all fucking like insane, and we're gonna rip our faces off in the mirror, and we're just gonna wake up and an octopus creature is gonna go, you failed. And the human simulation.
Octopus 179, you win given the opportunity to be five different colors of chimp. You fuck up. That seems like an unfair test to put on anybody.
To deprive them of anything other than what's actually being tested? Like they're inherent fucking intents, like, yeah, I mean, yes, I agree, it's unfair, but we come from a mythology as primates, we're like, oh, you're supposed to know the score. God's supposed to come down, tell you, don't eat the apple, and then I'll pay your rent.
And if anything goes wrong, you just blame women, you know? Like, we're supposed to get a spreadsheet at the beginning of the test, while maybe everybody else feels gaslit in the sense that they didn't know what the test was.
It was like, what's the chapter in Genesis when God comes back down after Eve gets made and says, I told him, don't eat the apple, I can't remember, I don't know, but it's not a newspaper anyway, it's a metaphor for...
Tim, just answer Dan's question. Brown.
You really are the worst interviewee of all time. You just sit there and don't answer shit.
You think working at South Park for their first three episodes earns you the right to sit there and say nothing? Well, I put my ass on the line about the shit I've gone through at Stanford.
I wrote Monster House. Do you have any idea how much research I had to do to write Monster House?
Do you have any idea how Monster House is?
Yeah, actually my roommate from college was one of the animators on that.
Oh, yeah?
So you employed him.
I created the job, but, you know, I thought that that was going to be a live-action script when we wrote it.
Which is why I've actually made quite a bit of money on that movie, because it was written under live-action rules.
So you get residuals.
So every time they go to Blu-ray in Singapore or something, I get a check that's based on, oh, this was a WGA, blah, blah, blah.
Fascinating.
But Tim, didn't you win some prestigious film writing award?
I was about to ask about that. The Walter Salt Award.
Waldo Salt.
Named after a famed writer who discovered salt. He wrote salt, right?
And he invented wearing striped red and white shirts and hiding in large crowds.
What is that award?
It was the screenwriting award at Sundance.
I wrote this movie back in 2004. It took forever to get made because the company we had written it for went out of business
and we found out that they barred over a million dollars against our script.
So our producer, a wonderful guy named Brent Emery, literally spent seven years chasing down 81 different chain of title issues
and settling up with everyone so that they would get some of their money back if we made the movie.
And then it was like all of a sudden I got a call in June like, I think we're making this movie.
And then in August we were shooting it.
In November we got into Sundance and it premiered in January.
But it's not a Sundance award for best blue bitty blue and a blue bitty blue. It's some guy's name.
Waldo Salt is, I guess it's like an honorarium or whatever.
It was set up by his family, I think, to honor independent screenwriting or whatever.
But it's the one screenwriting award they do every year at Sundance.
So that was pretty unexpected.
Yeah, but you know Dan wrote Monster House.
Where's my Waldo Salt?
Did you take it to Sundance?
I would have.
Yeah, it's a story. It's a children's horror film.
It's about a house that...
Hey Spencer, you've been awful quiet over there.
No.
Let's bring it back to the Stanford prison for a moment.
If you had your pick and you couldn't, like if the coin were tossed,
what do you think you would have been better or worse at being the guard or being a prisoner?
I'm sure I would be a kick-ass guard.
I mean, that's just my nature. I can be petty and mean and...
No, that means you'd be a worse guard.
You would be a worse person as a guard.
Yes.
Our whole goal with the entire movie was just to have people walk out at the end
and ask that question to themselves.
Do I have it within myself to turn into such an evil fucking person
if given the opportunity and having no repercussions?
And to that extent, I think the film works.
It's funny that...
I'd never seen a movie or anything I'd written in front of a huge audience before.
And at Sundance, we had like 1200 people at the first screening.
And there's a title card that comes up that just says Day 2.
And literally...
Everything that happened in the first day was so...
Everyone in the audience was like,
Holy shit that the air got sucked out of the room and it was one of the most...
The hair stood up on the back of my neck and I was like, oh my god.
A movie just got a reaction and I had something to do with that.
That happened to me and Cody, my girlfriend, when we were watching it today at Day 4.
Wait, what? Day 4?
And I checked the progress indicator and that's part of the point.
So is there... The answer to that question is yes, correct?
The people who are...
If you're made a guard by an institution,
guard in quotes meaning district manager,
if you're told that you're in charge of whether or not racism ends,
because you're the race that ends racism,
if you're told that you're the employee of the month,
if you're in charge of this parking spot,
if you're in charge of anything,
any power that you're given by an institution,
it seeps into the cracks of your soul and you have two choices.
You take on that role and actually surrender part of your empathy and individuality
in favor of serving that role better.
That's the important thing is that the guys that early on,
who started as a joke because putting on the uniforms reminded them of Coolhand Luke,
and that guy goes, I'm going to do my impression of a character from Coolhand Luke.
And then he comes out, he knows what to say to the president,
I want you to communicate well, and then the scientists are going, that guy's good.
More importantly, nothing happens. He's now in charge.
Everyone that's watching is going like, well, and then the shift changes
and they go, yeah, we did some fucked up shit today and nothing happened.
Don't you think that's part of what it is?
Dan, you are famous for, you hate being told what to do.
Let's say that you were, how old are these subjects back then, early 20s?
They were between 18 and 22.
And let's say that you, Dan, found out you were the guard.
You don't like being told what to do.
You also don't like, well, you do like telling people what to do
because you're a showrunner, that's part of your job description.
Like, what do you think you would be as a guard?
As a guard, I would be like, I would posture as a,
but I would be eclipsed by some guy who went fascistic.
I would be eclipsed by the guy who like jumped into the role.
Well, like a while back, I asked Spencer first.
Like, I'm curious, Spencer, you're so neutral.
Like, I can't picture you being,
turning into a shitty dominated prisoner or a fascistic bully guard.
Yeah.
But there are some people that did that.
But that response makes me think, I don't want you as my guard.
But there's an important thing here that you're getting to,
which is that there are...
At least it was, yeah.
It was a complex subject.
There's a way to be a prisoner as well,
and you have these narcissistic tendencies or things.
Like, as a prisoner, they ask them,
would you rather be a prisoner or a guard?
And everyone wanted to be a prisoner because they thought it'd be less work.
Because if you're a prisoner, you can just...
Just sleep.
The most work is that you're defined...
You get three hots on the cot.
You're always righteous.
The truth is always on your side.
You can't be a bad...
There's no such thing as a villainous prisoner.
You don't have any power.
We live in fear of being bad people, too.
Nobody wanted to be a guard,
but then the people that excel at being guards
are exhibiting the same personalities
as the people who are rallying the prisoners.
And that's when Zimbardo says,
these guys are swappable with a coin toss.
That means in every revolution
in every third world country,
when you have guerrillas coming down
from the hills and liberating the poor,
and then one of them becomes a dictator,
and then you have the NSA interfering.
People are handing you power, handing you rules.
There's also a certain level of compliance
in certain people,
because part of what this showed
as well as what happened at Abu Ghraib
is also what happened in Nazi Germany.
Is that if you're in a situation
where you feel you have zero power
and there's nothing you can do to change it,
like the people that are against you
are so massively in power,
you know, some people just, it's normalization.
It's that shit that's happening now.
People like on the Eastern Front
willfully were corralled
into a giant sand pit,
and they knew they were going to be killed,
and they did it meekly and mildly.
Because that's what society told them is their role.
Did any of the subjects go to the film,
like see the film?
I don't know.
I know, you know, I was very happy
that Zimbardo and his wife
saw the movie right before we went to Sundance,
and he came to Sundance and spoke and did all that stuff.
But I was very happy
because it's really weird telling somebody's story
and trying to get it right
and making sure not to also let him off the hook.
You know, we, for dramatic effect,
you know, in reality,
we haven't gotten to the third act yet,
so I can't tell you.
In reality, it ended a little bit differently
than it does in the movie.
Because that woman, the triangle of woman, comes back.
No.
Leo DiCaprio comes through a skylight.
That's how you got your funding.
Traffic was a bitch!
Fucking California, man.
But let's mash a really hot button right now,
but it's the elephant in the room,
which is really interesting,
is that prisons,
there were all dudes,
dudes running it,
dudes are the whole movie is all dudes,
dudes dealing with dude issues,
to the point where they're talking about
stripping dudes of their duteness,
their individuality,
and they're using it synonymously with the phrase feminization.
Put them in dresses.
Call them she, call them her, call them,
you know, and let's reduce them
of their individuality,
not their masculinity, their individuality
by feminizing them.
1971.
So like, the,
in 2017, casual Friday,
and somebody says to Becky in marketing,
like, you should wear a shorter skirt or something,
it's like, there's no bars on the windows,
there's no, the thing is,
this was a hallway at Stanford College.
None of these kids during this entire story,
ever
accidentally started believing
they were in prison.
They, what happened
was they were, they, they were
subjected long enough to
deprivation of this and enhancement
of that, that their behavior
changed, and it can happen
in a hallway. It can happen
with cubicles around you.
Well, that's one of the great things about the way Kyle
Alvarez directed the movie, and
I thought he had a really good idea, which was
when you first get introduced
to the prison, it's all shown in a master shot.
So you see, it's a fucking hallway in three classrooms
and a closet used as a whole.
During the process
of the movie, the lens is closed down and down
and down to the point where, when things are
really going shitty, you're in
close on people, and there's a lot of
diffusion.
So it makes it feel, it makes you feel claustrophobic.
And then when Zambardo comes in
and ends it, you cut back to that master, you realize
that the, the place
hasn't changed, the situation has changed.
Was there anybody, I mean, I, I read about this
a long time ago in, you know, in a psychology class
or something, and
you know, it's super fascinating, and
we all know about that, we say these words.
But did anybody emerge from that
guard or prisoner in like, fuck this shit.
I'm walking out of here, like, did anybody
like flex up and go, this is, this is dumb.
No, that's the, that's the one thing
nobody ever directly asked to be let out.
When they could at any point, they could just say,
you know what, fuck this, let me, let me go home,
you can't keep me here. Nobody did it
because the, the rules from above down
kept them feeling like, you know, it's, this
is one of the things that Zambardo and Stanley
Milgram have done in, in
a lot of different experiments.
One of which that comes to mind is Stanley
Milgram did an experiment where he put an ad
on the paper for like a secretary and
rented an office in a high rise in New York
and hired two people
to be plants, basically, in the office.
So when the woman would come in to
interview for the office, these two people were told
to stay still and don't react. The woman would
sit down and they'd start pumping smoke
into the room. And because the other two
people wouldn't react to it,
the third person, nine out of ten
times, wouldn't react to it. The fact that
the fucking building's on fire.
I mean, that's how, how powerful society
can be. That's me. I mean, I think
I'd be that third person. I, I
truly feel like so defined by
what everyone is reacting to. I feel like
I wait way too long. I told a story
about going out to lunch
with my friend Dino and our
new CFO at my
studio and he started choking on a piece of
hanger steak and I was very disappointed
with my
reaction time.
It's a man choking to death that was like
waiting for what? Bruce Willis
to like, come in. I don't know
man, but I, I, I, I, I
I'm afraid to find out what I'm made of. That's why
I bought a gun when Trump got elected. I don't
want to know what I'm made of because the answer is
nothing. I'm made of nothing. What are you, what
am I, John Claude Van Damme? I'm not made of
anything. I didn't earn anything.
I, I, I, I, I spoken about on the show before
I'm sure. I, I got pulled over on a, on a warrant.
I, I hit and run a sign and I got picked
up on a Saturday morning and spent all weekend
in jail at a, at a, in Whittier
and uh, Whittier, California. Yeah,
I'm not proud of it.
Uh, but I got uh, you know,
handcuffed, put in the car, put in jail
and I was in the jail
like, probably like
six or seven or eight cells.
Uh, they left me in my, they put me
in the, the tank, like the, the, the drunk
tank, like everyone else was three to a cell.
Uh, so they, they, they
were like two guys in a cot and one guy on the floor
and I would have to deal with the drunks that were
let in every night or the both nights
and what was amazing
was I was a college kid.
I was the only white guy in there
and I was treated as shitty as they were
and it was, you were instantly not a person
and I changed the way I talked
the way I made eye contact with the,
with the uh, with the officers there.
You're instantly told that you're a piece of shit
and when you leave there, you still
think so. You don't leave there and go,
oh, I'm gonna walk home now. I got out of here finally
after being treated like garbage
and again, this, this, this wasn't
Peru and it wasn't, you know, this wasn't
Syria. It was, it was
California. But
Whittier. Yeah.
Whittier is only nominally California.
Uh, it's uh,
I'm not saying that like my, my story
is the worst story of all time, but I, I was
surprised how instantly I felt like completely
uh, not
in any sort of power
and, and instantly not in equal
with anybody there. You're, you're a
scumbag and you're dirt and I felt like that for
days afterwards and
Well, imagine that for 30 years.
Yeah, I can't. Well, I, I, I'm fascinated
by and want shows about people being locked up.
It's like, it's like, the time
passes, it doesn't pass
and when you leave there, you're not
better. You're, you're psychologically
like a little dizzy
and fucked up and, and, and probably a lot worse
if you, you know, had
to go through actual shit. I was just in a,
in a fucking drunk tank for 52 hours.
It was a nightmare. Uh,
so like, uh, like what
I was thinking about the Stanford experiment
is like, they love fucking
with you the moment you're in there. They love it.
Well, part of it is also boredom.
They're doing eight hour shifts where they have nothing to do except
well, we can either sit in this room
or we can bring these guys out and make them do jumping jacks
and, and push them around and fuck them.
And they get spit on and yelled at and harassment and stuff
and they just love having like, like it's a shit
job. It's noisy. It smells like crap.
It's uh, the food is garbage. They're not
happy. They don't like their lives. They wanted
to be in a secret service with the FBI and they did.
And it's, and it's a fucking bummer.
And they do take a little bit
of just human glee
in knowing that they
fucked you around more than they got
fucked around that day. And I was
a
sophomore at USC at the time. I was, you know, like everything
going like the rest of the guys in there,
the only people that were nice to me were the
cholo gang bangers in there who fucking looked after me
and fucking like,
and they nicknamed me Hollywood.
And
when I got
you'll go far in prison with the nickname like
well, well, I was
warned up what would happen if I had to go to
county to get processed out. Luckily, I just got
to get kicked out of the, of
woodier jail. Uh, but
I got handcuffed like ankles
and uh, and wrists to the
courthouse to walk down the street and we
get in there and it's a bunch of dudes that come in from county
and some guys are going away for attempted murder.
Some guys are going away for like salt terrorist
terrorist, uh, threats, which means
like I just threatened to kill somebody in front of police
officer. Some are going to go away
for 20 years, some guys six months
and everybody was going up, like all the veteran
like cholo guys walking up to everybody like, hey man
you're going to get love, don't worry, like you get
six, you got six years, you'll be out in two and a half
homes and also you're going to be with my homie and
Chino, like I know this fucking guy, he's my cousin
and they were all going around and telling everybody
it's going to be okay, like you're going to be
looked after there, like I'll make sure you talk to
my friends so and so. And I had
to get, walked up to the
courthouse, uh, to
I saw one judge with the oldest dude in there
this, like with the teardrops and the whole
thing, this old school veteran and
he walked up and he goes, listen man, like
you're a good kid, like what are you doing in there?
I mean, I fucking didn't pay a fine and
I knocked over a sign and didn't have the money to pay
for the thing and had a bench warrant and I didn't pay
the fine because he had this judge fucking hates you, man, like he's a
asshole, like he hates me, he hates everybody
but we're going to go see this guy and we're handcuffed
walking to the elevator together, took up
and he goes, you don't say shit unless he talks to you
and if he talks to you, don't say anything but
the answer to his fucking question
and if he asks you anything else
say it's you're missing your fucking second day of your
second year at school and you're a good kid
and you shouldn't, and you don't belong here
and when I, when he
stood up to get his thing, I had to stand up and when I had
this, like the vice versa, and I got back down
and it all went cool, got back down
and they kicked me out, they called you to go, Jeff Davis
and all, I'm not joking,
I know everyone thinks I'm making up these fucking stories
and I, I don't care if you do
because this happened and I almost, and I
I will cry thinking about it
they were like 15, 20, 22
guys in there
the toughest guy in there was sleeping
as a pillow, he had the only roll of toilet paper
and that was his pillow so no one had toilet paper
everyone else being really nice to each other
they're all in the county blues and orange
and when they called my name, Jeff Davis
the fucking guys knew me, they went
Hollywood!
I was like, what does that mean?
I go in the county and they're like, no
that means you got love homes, that means you got love
and when I got, when they let me out
when they fucking let me out the door
the fucking dudes came up and hugged me
and the cops outside looked at me
they wanted to fucking beat my ass from the parking lot
so it's a story about
me being the coolest guy in the world
hahahaha
Hollywood!
I fucking make myself a drink
I can't believe I have a story
I haven't told in the show already
you told that story before
we have
we have 500 episodes
it's fine
I told it better now
but the interesting thing about that
when I listen to that though
having watched Tim's
screenplay movie
I was going to say Tim's movie but I didn't want the
director to be like
send me a rabbit's head or something
whatever the directors do and you call
the writer's movie
there's a point in there where there's a
tension paid to breaking up the solidarity
within the ranks and when we talk about
the guards or pieces of shit
and the prisoners have all this solidarity
it's not even
it's like
my new eye on that is like
yeah but you can also put divisive energy
into a population
if you had been in a situation
if you had been in a
incarcerative
environment in which the administrative
powers that be
felt threatened
there might have been
a system in place
in which you were more pitted against
your fellow
inmates because they had already
perceived a threat
and put energy into it which they can
easily do in the most subtle of ways
drive a wedge between everybody
give them less toilet paper
for pillows give them
or give them one roll and give this guy
spaghetti and give that guy not spaghetti
and it's something that they
do very readily
in order to quell the potential
so I know I'm going to sound
like a fucking weird
apologist for the man
or whatever but I'm actually
now I'm looking at that
and going like instead of hearing that
it's like ah they have those fucking guards
I'm like thinking you know those guards
probably living in an environment that's like as close
as you can get to having an incarcerated group
and then they're in charge of guarding it
which is why they're so bitter
when those guys start getting happy
and Abu Ghraibing
because there's been a tension
actually deliberately put down into
making sure that for instance an environment
gets created where somebody wants to beat you up
like because you're just
in the same cell as them or they're
you know what I mean
in my little minute situation
it was a police station
and the people that were there were probably
going to county and then a lot of them
were going to be in county for a while
then probably go to federal prison
or
to come back to a county then back to a jail
like they were going to be in there for a long time
they told me like this is as good as it's going to get
and they warned me about what happens at the other stages
like here's
when you don't take a shit
and here's where you put things that you care about
not losing and
and here's like and they all told me like
you know the thing that you're like you're going to have to color up
with the white white power dudes and all that shit
and I was just like
I just my stomach was
just liquid the entire time
because
the good thing was that
I was vegetarian I just become vegetarian
and it was
bologna and cheese sandwiches they gave I gave them all my bologna
they gave me all the cheese
the reason I
I had a kick at that cheese was bullshit
but it was the best cheese sandwich you ever had
the reason I'm bringing this up because I'm trying to carry over
I'm constantly always talk about the Stanford
prison experiment what that experiment was
what it meant the fact that it didn't have to be
scientifically accurate the fact that it's less a cautionary
tale about science and how to get data and all
the stuff the fact that what it really means
is that you can be in
the Stanford prison experiment
and there can be
no bars around you
you can be in a three-piece suit you can have
a big mustache you can be the star of
your own biopic and you can be
in the Stanford prison experiment
you whenever you are
told which is every minute of
every day by Reddit
by commenters by everything
you're told by the ghost of your mother
that you have a role
and you're in an argument you're a libtard
you're a wing nut you're a right
right wingy left wingy I'm policing
I'm an apologist I'm a thing
I'm engaging with another
human being and as I
found out like buying
my fucking gun like a maniac
like the
and looking through Sandy Hook conspiracy theories
it's like I've had a plan this whole podcast to bring this
message home that like
walk out of here knowing that you're already
in a prison I mean you can't
just walk out of life you can't
walk out of America especially not now
you might not be let back
in like we're all
we're in an environment and the
environment is being run and I'm not saying
that means let's go throw a garbage can
through a window that won't do any good
it means that
if you know if you remind yourself
that you're in an environment that you're encased
in something you might
you might maintain your empathy
those guys that knew
the system that were saying Hollywood here's
the thing the judge does this and does that
like they were
they were wearing a mask they were saying
like we're in this system
the system is a system like
the real life exists outside of it
now while you're in here
don't fuck with that guy's toilet paper
try the soup instead of the salad you're gonna be
fine there's solidarity
there's empathy possible because everything's
been removed from them except
that there's been not an undue
amount of like divisive energy
placed on it
hopefully we could withstand that too
if you're looking at another human being
digitally or whatever you have
that temptation to go animal
because you filled as I have been
with that fucking outrage
where you're like I know what I'm
about and I know what I'm up against
and I'm gonna tell this piece of fucking
15 year old Canadian shit
how politics works
on Twitter
he might have been
one group that wouldn't
you have a 15 year old Canadian
daughter okay fine
I don't like
it
Venice Wayland whatever won't offend you
shut the fuck up
see it happen to me again
it's as easy as somebody
telling me I don't know what I'm doing
fuck off fuck off fuck you
I own a gun lady
it's at a gun store
it's at a gun store but I own it
see that you feel like a prisoner
but you're acting like a guard and that's
the whole point
because I've been given the microphone well I took it
with a lifetime of talent
they give them aviator
is that the title of the show
yes it is
we've got some good selection
they give them aviator glasses
everything's a fantasy
prison guards don't necessarily always wear aviator sunglasses
but it's a problem
it's an image of authority
it's like when you can't see behind
someone's eyes or when you can't see their eyes
empathy
everything about that the whole thing was
designed just to remove humanity
from the entire equation
when they interrogate suspects they take advantage
they'll turn into a game show
the prisoner's dilemma
you want them to rat on each other
you separate them
you make sure they can't see and touch each other
and you say to one
the other one says you did it
now what will you do
your empathy is put to the test
will you bother to walk
as a lamb to the slaughter
well this other piece of shit that you don't know
that I can tell you about is telling you
that you're the one that did it
you're the sensible thing to protect yourself
and just tell me that that other person
is a bad person
and that's the fucking internet
it divides 8
billion people
into individual cells
we cannot see or touch each other
and we are being told by headlines
and clickbait
that we don't understand each other
and that we are going to fuck each other over
but also
in bringing it back to like a prison environment
with the internet there's no accountability
which is again how
Abu Ghraib happened it's like you put a bunch of people
that don't have the proper training
in a position of authority without any supervision
and fucked up shit is going to happen
against people that have no hibis corpus
and no outside contact
it's a free for all
it's a giant frat party
it's nuts
you've been in rooms
that you probably can't talk about
like the last Jedi
I haven't seen you
no I haven't been in rooms
I was actually on the set of the last Jedi
but I was also on the set of Rogue One
well
the set was cool
I just talked to the set of Rogue One
and they said the set of the last Jedi
is a piece of shit
so either you fucking rat on them
and I don't know how that was
if you could have pulled that rabbit on that hat
there's nothing you can tell us
you can tell us about the emotional experience
of being on a Star Wars set
well the cool thing is
I went over there when they were prepping for
last Jedi or episode 8 or whatever they're calling it
I'd rather be a guard
it's so easy
it's so easy to be me
sometimes
you just have to wait 49 minutes
I say 3 words
it's great
sorry
you did the funniest thing on the show
and you said 3 sentences
it's a living
what kind of food did they get
in the Stanford experiment
shitty
but Dan had mentioned before
they also did
there were two cells that revolted
and one that acquiesced
so they gave them a special meal
they were constantly
using things against other prisoners
but they made that up on the fly
because of the actual instant need
that the experiment hadn't predicted
which was that the prisoners would
band together and revolt
so why don't we just outnumber them
and do this or that
now we divide you
now we give them soup and not you soup
we take people out of one cell
if the three of you have become friends
we're going to break you up and put you in different groups
the fact that we wouldn't see that lie happening
when we talk about race and gender
and everything else that divides us
we talk so fucking
rarely about income bracket
for a country that runs on the dollar
that's creating a middle class
by saying that you're the privileged
you create a giant underclass
of people of all shapes and sizes
that are all poor
which is the only thing that matters
so it's very obvious the tricks
when you look at prisons
you go like what do they do
and everybody might go
run!
they wouldn't be able to do much
but not that I'm advocating for that
and I don't know what that would look like
I guess all of us using toilet paper
for pillows at the same time
just try it
or don't pay your income tax
I don't know
but the red beams
form on my chest
so Star Wars you were on the set
and it was interesting they had lightsabers
the coolest thing was I got to go in
the Millennium Falcon
which is meticulously recreated
what does that mean?
there are two versions of it
there's one that's like an exterior version
that they use like a full size one
out in the world or whatever
wait what do you mean?
they shot in Ireland and at one set
they had an exterior full size
what they built it like a building
so you can walk in and out of it
and see the cockpit from the outside
why would they even do that?
I would fire that line producer
CG that shit
well I mean
that's amazing I'm glad they did it
they did it for episode 7
and then that was what was still standing
was not the exterior but the interior
so you walk up basically the ramp of the Millennium Falcon
and then you're on, you're in the Millennium Falcon
the whole thing
all the way through like the holding area
where they play chess
and into the cockpit
and all that stuff
they just amortized that with doing a Netflix sitcom
they could just pay for that whole thing
with like six seasons of a workplace comedy
called Millennium Knights
apparently it cost
it cost a shit ton of money
because they went back and
when they made the original Millennium Falcon
half the stuff were all old airplane parts
and stuff like that
and none of that existed anymore so they had to go in 3D print
from reference photos
all this shit so you walk in there and it's like
oh my god I just walked into my fucking childhood
to what level of detail
like every nook and cranny like everything
they could shoot anything there
yeah I mean you know if you watch Force Awakens
I mean there are shots where you walk
through the whole thing and that's there
that's what I'm saying
it shouldn't be a sitcom it should be like an Aaron Sorkin
like what
it's like a West Wing
there's nothing but walking and talking in the Falcon
what's your opinion
you can't say anything about where Star Wars is at
I'll lay my cards at the table
I'm 44 I
saw Phantom Menace
I started crying I got over it
you started crying I started laughing
I was like is this real?
maybe I was like a hollow
I said at the point where they went into the water
and the jubububu
planet
I was sitting next to Schrab
and I went oh my god
this is the worst movie ever
and Schrab was like shhh
but he didn't mean we're in a movie theater
he meant like stop
it might surprise us
was it Rob wanted someone else to be quiet
he was just we were just both there
as the same team we were like
we had been waiting for this moment our entire lives
I started weeping
during the
20th Century Fox logo
at the beginning of Phantom Menace
I had been waiting for that moment my entire
life that's not an exaggeration
I had been waiting for that moment
my entire life
I couldn't see Phantom Menace because I was in jail
motherfucker
Hollywood
you all seem to have a problem
understanding simple communication
now
now I see a couple of you
a black, a couple of you a white
you all need to understand
that you are animals
now I'm going to give the white people free lasagna
cause y'all Garfield now
y'all black people gotta ask
do you hate Mondays
now
now try to rally them
they've been divided
stand up again see if it still works
if I do they're gonna start chanting Hollywood
I don't believe you
half of them are women
now hold on
hold on now
hold on
you all seem to have misunderstood
what I said earlier
some of y'all
seem to be doing some titty thinking
I think a good half y'all got titties
and vaginas
I wonder if maybe they need to get
some spaghetti on Wednesdays
well you can dangle your dicks
and the pudding on Thursday
I don't think I'd be very good guard
you'd be entertaining
that's alright
it's okay
shut up
y'all need to start seeing the monster house
there's plenty of things
eyes in the windows
door open up the carpets
a tongue
scooping up you
if you're black or you're a woman
scoop you up
trick or treat
you'd make a bad
warden we found that out
make a bad
Appalachian warden
your Strother Martin could use some work
I'm bad at everything
but here's the thing
I didn't ask for it
I don't need your bullshit
I'm not a populist autocrat
maybe you need to
go to jail
and come back with a nickname
and people will just chance it on site when they see you
what do you think your jail nickname would be
chowder
chowder?
did you just say that in the thickest
boston accent in the word
chowder
oh for monster house
no you haven't seen it
alright
I just resemble a person that should be called chowder
that has to be a monster house
reference of course
the blanks tear does not lie
no he said chowder from his fucking heart
because I'm
I get it
for the same reason I named that character chowder
there's no way he said
one of the three main characters from your movie
there's an easy way
no it's like he's the
sad fat guy in the movie
and you having not seen the movie
you said the same thing I did
you named a sad fat guy from your heart
I have no ill will against you
now if you come in my window tonight
unless I'm
seeing wrong
you're dead
it would be a wicked retarded move
to trespass
no offense to the
actual wicked retarded
isn't your sister retarded
my sister
well she's a cool person from Boston
no my sister is institutionalized in
Madison
would have bring it down Jeff
pretty fucked up
dragged my sister into it
no but that's not what that phrase means
it's more of a term of
endearment there
I agree that's why I said no offense to
Tim what are we
Tim don't listen to him
Tim face me for a moment
go ahead dude Jeff
go talk to Hollywood
what you're gonna see is Dan
for the next five or so minutes before we finish the show
is just still mad about people chanting Hollywood
so he's gonna
try everything he can
to sort of salvage some sort of
some dignity out of this whole thing
and he's gonna bring you down with that ship
that's fine
so
okay you can go back to Dan now
thank you
Tim I feel like what you just saw was
when they chanted Hollywood
Jeff was stimulated on a level we didn't realize
is that why he's sitting down
that's why this podium is so large
we could talk about
what's this script
that was on the blacklist balls out
for the
thank you
yeah balls out was this script that I wrote with
another guy named Malcolm Spellman
under the pseudonym of the
RoboTard 8000
so we
wrote the script it was during the writer strike
the last one
and we just were like fuck it let's write what we want to write
not anything
for anyone in particular and
we finished it we brought it to our
representatives and they were like no fucking way
we're not taking this script out it's too offensive
and literally
nobody would take it out
I had a couple of friends that we were commiserating with
and just said fuck it just throw it up on the internet
and see what happens the script itself
so I created a website that looks like
it was created by a differently
abled robot
and
and had some friends that were screenwriters
just give us like a blurb if they liked it
and all of a sudden it just took off
and as of like last week it's been
downloaded almost 200,000 times
which is insane
yeah
and it's the only script so far
that's ever gotten on the blacklist without
ever being sent out
you know people read it afterwards
but it never officially went out
for anyone to really buy
so is it like what's Jerry Lewis's one though
the day the clowns cried
yeah but we did actually
the blacklist podcast
we did a stage reading of it
oh really? yeah and recorded that actually
it's like oh well yeah this is a movie this does work
so that was kind of fun
the blacklist is the thing that I'm only familiar with
third hand like I've never actually
gone to anything
and seen anything
my studio has optioned a script
that was number one on the blacklist
I know that I can repeat that to people
but that's not how it was brought to me
now the blacklist yeah again it's one of those things
it's just a bit of a popularity contest
when it first started out it was literally this guy
Franklin Leonard just asked his friends
what was their favorite movie script
that they'd read and he put them all together
and made a list out of it and then now it's become
this sort of other entity
but you know the idea though
that we ended up pretty high on the blacklist
without ever like
you know our whole thing was like this is a
fucking balls out comedy you gotta send it to
everybody you send it to the entire town
and like 5% are gonna love it
and they wouldn't send it to anybody
so yeah
you know it's um
I should read it Dan
if you think describing
the conceit will just make it sound
through in this country
no it'll sound stupid again the whole idea was
to just like we just were like fuck it
about every rule of screenwriting while adhering
to every rule of screenwriting
so it's basically it's about a guy
who you know has been leading his life
the way society tells him to
which is you know if I do if I keep my head down
and do good work I'll get you know the white picket fence
and the house and the wife and the two kids
and he comes to a point where he realizes
that like nothing in his life is going his way
get struck by lightning
um has a moment where
he realizes that there's nothing after life
but the reality is it's actually
like the circle of light
opens up behind him he's just too dumb
to look around and he comes he wakes
back up and he's just like fuck it I want
I'm gonna make a list of things I want that girl
that car and that job and then because he got hit
by lightning because he realized there's no point
to anything there's no point to waiting in
for the following rules so he just
goes balls out basically
and just starts doing whatever is necessary
to get what he wants and then realizes of course
that he's president of the United States
that was awesome
the laugh meter got closed to show clothes
I know but we are
we're trying to we're trying to go on a
show a runtime diet
we're like come on we should really
cut these calories and
if they if they react loudly enough
we should just end the show like
guard versus prisoner
alright well
we make all the guests do a
rap
we don't really you don't
know
yo
stanford
rap
I'm a guard because you gave me a badge
I'm gonna fuck your mama so hard I'm resizing
her badge I got a night stick
I got sunglasses gonna lock
you all up and patrol your ass is gonna
tell you to recite your numbers
I'm gonna go through you like
I go through tumblr at night
and look for bad reviews of my script
my name is guard number
72 we don't have
names like you
I mean we don't have names
comma like you
my name is guard number
72 I got up
this morning what did I do
I brushed my teeth I ate
some beef I went out the door
and I hung up a wreath
because the date of this rap
is December 15th
I went
to the mail box
and I pulled out some mail and I pulled out
some socks the socks weren't
on my feet where they go so I went
down the street and started to mow
along and
and then I
and then I went on the socks
MC
Tim Talbot
no
thank you for coming to Harmontown everybody
let's hear it for
Tim Talbot
shut up you sons of bitches
you have no power
you're animals
let's hear it for Spencer Crittenden and everybody
we're in Chicago next week
oh yes
next week we're in Chicago
but Jeff won't be there
but Brandon Johnson will be in Chicago
but then the week after that
will be our last show at
Meltdown Steve is making
nope Steve is making
a face like that it's not true there's two more I think right
what
April 1st
Harmontown in Chicago
go on the Googles you guys
we have it on Google that's why we have to say it here
all right but the thing is
we're nearing the end of our
tenure here at the Meltdown
and we're going to be doing at the
Castle at Starburns which is
even more fun if you haven't been before
well
yes you have to drive to Burbank
well you don't have to come
let's thank Zach, Chris and Sarah backstage
we're doing everything cool church we're taking all of our photos
everybody here at Meltdown for being
wonderful all of our lovely friends
your mayor
Dan Harmon everybody
oh I'm sorry
I forgot to mention my name
you motherfucker
this isn't over this isn't over
you piece of shit
no don't leave me here with these animals
get back
to yourselves
get back to yourselves
you were born
less than human
you deserve less
all right I can't stay mad at you
get back to yourselves
free toilet paper pillows for all of you
Tim Talbot everybody
go watch the Stanford Prison Experiment
I think it's very
relevant
April 1st we're coming to Chicago
April 1st
we're coming out of here
did you get any of that
sure